# Discussion on authenticity-checks
To check machine 2 machine authentication in between the systems one could use different methods although authentication and authorization will be OAuth2.0-based in any case. We only discuss different consumer authentication-methods:

* OpenID-Trust only
* DNS-Methods (like publickey authentication as dns-txt-entry, added to a whitelist, or globally allow anyone)
* at_proto (bsky also describes it as a dns-based-effort)
* ActivityPub

## OpenID-Trust only
Only manually trusted (authenticated) systems are allowed. ConsumerID and ConsumerSecret is generated by the Producer-OpenID-Service. Should be the most secure among the methods, as it only allows specified consumers into the system.

## DNS-Methods
Provide a public key that may also be signed by each consumer of the system (web-of-trust-approach).
Alternatively have a central authority.

## at_proto
Developed by bluesky / twitter as federated authentication and transmission protocol - not production-proof yet. Uses DIDs to authenticate domains.  
We strongly recommend to use did:web over did:plc, as it is at least approved bei W3C. Very similar to JWT but implemented as published txt-dns-records. Uses very strong encryption based on elliptic curves to sign and encrypt requests. Another advantage is the built-in support for message-queues.
App section of the protocol seems to be pretty flexible and also comparable to JWT.

## ActivityPub
Developed by mastodon as federated authentication and transmission protocol - very detailed and headed towards microblogging.  
Different approach to atproto, 